.TH CLOUD-INIT 1

.SH NAME
cloud-init \- Cloud instance initialization

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "cloud-init" " [-h] [-d] [--force] [-v] [SUBCOMMAND]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Cloud-init provides a mechanism for cloud instance initialization.
This is done by identifying the cloud platform that is in use, reading
cloud meta-data, vendor-data and user-data, and then initializing the
instance as requested.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Show help message and exit.

.TP
.B "-v, --version"
Show program's version number and exit.

.TP
.B "--all-stages"
INTERNAL: Run cloud-init's stages under a single process using a syncronization protocol. This is not intended for CLI usage.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
Please see the help output for each subcommand for additional details,
flags, and subcommands.

.TP
.B "analyze"
Analyze cloud-init logs and data.

.TP
.B "collect-logs"
Collect and tar all cloud-init debug info.

.TP
.B "clean"
Remove logs and artifacts so cloud-init can re-run.

.TP
.B "devel"
Run development tools. See help output for subcommand details.

.TP
.B "features"
List defined features.

.TP
.B "query"
Query standardized instance metadata from the command line.

.TP
.B "schema"
Validate cloud-config files using jsonschema.

.TP
.B "single"
Manually run a single module. Useful for testing during development.

.TP
.B "status"
Report cloud-init status or wait on completion.

.SH DEPRECATED

.TP
.B "-d, --debug"
Show additional pre-action logging (default: False).

.TP
.B "--force"
Force running even if no datasource is found (use at your own risk).

.TP
.B "init"
Initialize cloud-init and execute initial modules.

.TP
.B "modules"
Activate modules using a given configuration key.

.SH EXIT STATUS

.IP
0 - Success
.IP
1 - Error - Cloud-init failed.
.IP
2 - Recoverable error - Cloud-init completed but experienced errors.


.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2020 Canonical Ltd. License GPL-3 or Apache-2.0

.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation at: <https://docs.cloud-init.io>
